Great big sea hove in Long Beach, Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Great big sea hove in Long Beach, Granny Snooks she lost her speech, To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. Great big sea hove in the Harbour Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Great big sea hove in the Harbour Hove right up to Keough's Parlour To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. Mother, dear I wants a sack Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Mother, dear I wants a sack With beads and buttons all down me back To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. "Me boot is broke, me frock is tore Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Boot is broke, me frock is tore, But Granny Snooks I do adore. To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. Fish is gone and the flour is high Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Fish is gone and the flour is high Granny Snooks she can't have I To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. She will have me in the fall Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, If she don't I'll hoist my sail Hove right up to old Canaille. To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee. Great big sea hove in Long Beach, Whack fal-o-ral tad-dle did-dle i-do, Great big sea hove in Long Beach, Granny Snooks she lost her speech, To me right fol-di-dy fol-dee They keep talking of the things they'd do if we'd only vote them in One more dollar and all the bickering and suffering would end. If you'd sign your 'X' in favour it's three jobs for every man You can burn your boats, thats what they said, It seemed they had it planned. And I hope they haven't forgotten, the promises they made Cause they said they'd stop the fighting And they said they would bring peace And they said they'd find a serum that can cure all our disease. And they said they'd house the homeless And put black and white in tune And they said they'd feed a hungry child And I hope it's someday soon Saw a man sleep in an alley lane with a paper for a bed And the headline shown beneath the man and this is what they read, "If elected there would be no persons living in the street" But the paper couldn't even provide shelter for his freezing feet. And I hope they haven't forgotten, The promises they made Well they said it would be so different, if we'd would only play their games And I've been playing for so long and I swear its still the same! Well it was on this monday morning And the day be calm and fine A harbour grace excursion With the boys who had the time And just before the sailor Took the gangway from the pier I saw some fellow haul me wife Aboard as a volunteer Oh me, oh my, I heard me old wife cry Oh me, oh my, I think I'm gonna die! Oh me, oh my, I heard me old wife say, "I wish I'd never taken this excursion around the bay" We had fourteen hundred souls aboard, oh what a splendid sight! Left stong and regimental to make our spirits bright And meself being in the double, when a funny things they'd say They choke themselves from laughing when they'd see us in the bay Me wife she got no better, she turned a sickly green I fed her cake and candy, fat pork and kerosene Castor Oil and sugar of candy, I rubbed pure oil on her face And I said she'll be a dandy when we reaches Harbour Grace! My wife she got no better, my wife me darling dear The screeches from her trollear could hear in Carbonear I tried every place in Harbour Grace, Tried every store and shop, To get her something for a cure or take her to the hop She died below the brandy's as we were coming back We buried her in the ocean, wrapped up in a Union Jack So now I am a single man, in search of a pretty face And the woman that says she'll have me, I'm off for Harbour Grace! Well I was walking in the main land city
And I was feeling so alone
I was looking for someone or thing to remind me of my home
What I wouldn't give to have somebody nod or wink at me Cause that's the way we say hello in my home down by the sea
We never say "hello" or "how's it going?", "good day" or any of that
We just look at them and nod our heads and wink say 'Whadd'ya At?' Whadd'ya At? How's she going buddy, Whadd'ya At today?
Whadd'ya At? How's she going buddy, Whadd'ya At today? But then I walked into a shopping mall and much to my surprise
An old friend from my hometown was a sight for my sore eyes
And of all the people I met down in the city or in the mall I think I like my hometown friend the best one of them all
Because he didn't say "hello" or "hows it going today?" or any of that
My old friend he just looked at me and smiled said "Whadd'ya At?" Let this be a lesson to all our people who go away
Remember if you meet someone the special words we say
We don't ever say "hello" or "how's it going?", "good day"
Or any of that.
You just look at them and nod your head now wink say "Whadd'ya At?" I stand in my doorway as the moon rises high
Over glorious ocean, reflects the bright sky
My heart it is aching, so much I could die
I've known only the ocean, since I was a boy And I spent my whole life, out there on the sea
Some government bastard now takes it from me
It's not just the fish, they've taken my pride
I feel so ashamed that I just want to hide I fished with my father, so long long ago
We were proud of our trade, and in us it did show
We held our heads high, there was lots of fish then
That was the time, when we were proud men We challenged great storms and sometimes we won
Faced death and disaster, we rose with the sun
We worked and we toiled, we strained our men brane
We were a proud people, will we ere be again? My father is gone now, and the fish are gone too.
Abused and mis-managed, oh what can we do?
I'm too old to change, but what of my sons,
How will they know that we weren't the ones? DFO regulations permitted the rape
Of our beautiful ocean, from head land to cape
They brought in big trollers, they tore up our twine
Politians don't care for what's yours or what's mine! You brave Newfoundlanders, now listen to me
Shove the package to hell, go back to the sea
If we don't stand our ground, we will fade away
And the bones of our fathers will turn into clay And I spent my whole life, out there on the sea
Some government bastard now takes it from me
It's not just the fish, they've taken my pride
I feel so ashamed that I just want to die.Back to the sea. I'se The B'y that builds the boat and
I'se The B'y that sails her and
I'se The B'y that catches the fish and
Brings 'em home to Liza Hip-yer-partner Sally Thibault
Hip-yer-partner Sally Brown
Fogo, Twillingate, Morton's Harbour,
All around the circle Salts and rinds to cover your flake,
Cake and tea for supper
Cod fish in the spring of the year,
Fried in maggoty butter I don't want your maggoty fish
They're no good for winter
Well I can buy as good as that,
Way down in Bonavista! 
I took Liza to a dance,
As fast as she can travel,
And every step that she could take,
Was up to her knees in gravel Susan White she's outta sight,
Her petticoat wants a border,
Well old Sam Oliver in the dark,
He kissed her in the corner! I'se The B'y that builds the boat and
I'se The B'y that sails her and
I'se The B'y that catches the fish and
Brings 'em home to Liza What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
Earl-eye in the morning! Way hay and up she rises
Way hay and up she rises
Way hay and up she rises
Earl-eye in the morning Shave his belly with a rusty razor,
Shave his belly with a rusty razor,
Shave his belly with a rusty razor,
Earl-eye in the morning! Put him in the hold with the Captain's daughter,
Put him in the hold with the Captain's daughter,
Put him in the hold with the Captain's daughter,
Earl-eye in the morning! What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
Earl-eye in the morning! Put him the back of the paddy wagon,
Put him the back of the paddy wagon,
Put him the back of the paddy wagon,
Earl-eye in the morning! Throw him in the lock-up 'til he's sober,
Throw him in the lock-up 'til he's sober,
Throw him in the lock-up 'til he's sober,
Earl-eye in the morning! What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
Earl-eye in the morning! What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
What do you do with a drunken sailor,
Earl-eye in the morning! Its of an Irishman I'm going to tell you
Free from Ireland sailed away
Where he was to he was not contended
Made up his mind for to go away Early next morning the ship was sailing
Queenstown harbour, golden core
Eight long days he was sailing over
Till he landed in New York Up the street young Paddy wandered
Each big building caught his eye
Looking up at a big shop window,
A bottle of whisky he did spy Into the bar young Paddy entered
Called for a drink, without delay
Give me a drop of that Irish Whisky,
Four big coppers I will pay The landlord he jumped over the counter
"Pay me down that bill", he said
Paddy up with a big shillelagh
Laid him on the floor right dead So the Yankees they came running
When they heard about the row
Trying to kill poor Irish Paddy,
Shouting out, "Where is he now?!" Irishmen they followed after
Following without delay
Each of them with a big shillelagh,
Made the Yankees run away May God's success to his Irish people
Many's the country they have roamed
But their courage is far bolder
When they're far away from home Hearken to me both high and low
I'll sing for you a song
Of Kings and Queens, and rose-lipped maidens
Courting light foot lads Now love is grand, when love is new
The heart blood, it runs strong
There's nothing a doting lad won't do
To keep his princess warm He'll tease her with poems and promises
He'll ask her out to dance
He'll cajole and he'll beg
And he'll always win
In bitter-sweet romance For time it comes, and time it goes
It makes the strongest tree to bend
Kings and Queens have no defence
Time brings all things to an end. But he goes out, with his drinking pals
His eyes begin to roam
He forgets all about the brown-eyed beauty
Who now, sits home alone There's no more walks, down lover's lane
There's no more wine in the sun
All that's left is a hollow pain
Time, alas you've won Now all who wish for love to stay
And last your whole life through
Keep ahead of time me boys
And never be untrue